>> Maximiliano Firttman: The last thing
that I have for the installation is this,
if we look at the Squoosh installation,
let me uninstall the app so
we can see the installation again.
Also we can check edge as well,
Microsoft Edge,
just to see something different,
look at the Squoosh.
Look at our installation,
let me also uninstall mine.
Uninstall, okay, so this is
our installation dialog, okay?
That you're happy with it, and
this is a Sqooch installation dialogue.
This one, it's better, right?
So, why?
In fact, let's try on Edge.
Localhost 3000, that's not our
app actually, this is our app.
That was probably a service worker
that has installed the previews on
the same port.
We have this one here,
it's a different one.
It says Install CodepadMasters, you can
also open as a tab window from here.
Look at that actually pretty cool.
So you can enable tab
mode as a user in Edge.
And Squoosh,
>> Maximiliano Firttman: .app,
you can install the Squoosh app,
and here it has the same.
Well, here we are the same in Edge, okay?
But in Chrome, the other one is better.
Why?
I mean, I have the slide, I have
the theory, but let's try to inspect,
let's be hackers.
I mean, if I go to the application on the
Manifest, I can try to see the Manifest.
They're using the old name Manifest.json.
If you right-click,
you can open the manifest in the new tab.
We can see the manifest.
The manifest is public of every PWA.
This is their manifest.
Let me select pretty print so
we can see it better.
So name, short_name,
start_url, theme, color,
icon, and then we have description,
categories and
screenshots with form factor narrow and
form factor wide.
Let's say phones, desktop.
And the magic is actually
the description and the screenshorts.
If you have description and
screenshot it will work.
So let's do at least one just for
testing this.
So I will go to the manifest
app.webmanifest.
So I need to add let's
add the description.
>> Maximiliano Firttman: So
the best notepad app for taking notes
while doing Frontend Masters courses.
Okay, that's the description,
that's the text.
And then I have screenshots.
That screenshot is using
the same schema as icons, so
we are talking about
objects with a source.
So I'm going to create a screenshot.png or
jpeg.
Wherever, a size that,
actually sizes is optional.
You don't need to specify the size.
They have it here, but
I think they're not optional,
mandatory, but
we can add a size, the type.
I'm leaving the size for later.
So I will take a screen, real
screenshot, and I will use it, image/png.
And then it is important you need to
specify form_factor, narrow or wide.
For desktop, it's wide,
for mobile, it's narrow.
So if you want to see that,
reach UI installation dialog,
that's the name,
that right now works in Chrome,
on desktop and Android,
you need to specify a description and
at least one screenshot for
the current form factor.
So at least one wide,
and one narrow, okay?
Okay, so now I will open or
take a screenshot.
I can just for the screenshot.
I can just do something like this.
It doesn't matter, right?
So,
>> Maximiliano Firttman: Let's take that
screenshot.
So I will create an image of that.
And, what is this?
I don't know, the preview.
Other images that I had in the preview.
So I will save this.
Of course, the file I'm going
to save is not compressed.
It's nothing, just a file.
But do you know any web
app to compress images?
Yeah, we know.
So I've saved this, but
I can open a Squoosh.
Well, I have uninstalled
it, but I have it here.
Now you know how to create
this install button.
By the way, look at the bottom.
How fortunate you are that we
have just got that message.
What is that?
Update available,
what do you think that is?
>> Male Speaker: Probably
a server push of new
assets, of-
>> Maximiliano Firttman: Some assets have
changed, and it's asking me, hey,
do you wanna reload the app so
we can take it now?
Okay, I didn't tweet it.
Or need to send a message to the team.
So they did, I don't know,
but it was just luck.
[LAUGH] So now I can take my app here,
I can open now my web app.
So the screenshot is what is
35k it's not so bad anyway.
And I can convert it to, no maybe I want.
>> Maximiliano Firttman: This is JPEG.
This is so big.
There we are.
Now we are talking so I kind of use OxiPNG.
Will save me 55%,
which is okay, save it as.
Screenshot, actually not
this one screenshot.
So a screenshot.png is here, okay?
It's this is the size.
>> Maximiliano Firttman: Okay?
We have a description.
We have one screenshot.
Let's try.
So go back here, refresh, cross your
fingers, click here, there we are.
We have a better,
a richer UI installation,
just because I added one screenshot and
one,
>> Maximiliano Firttman: And
the description.
And by the way, in applications manifest,
you can see the errors.
I'm still having an error.
Say, hey, Richer PWA install
UI won't be available on mobile.
Why?
Because I don't have a narrow screenshot.
So, just don't tell anyone, but
I will just say you know what
this is narrow yeah, yeah.
So I have now a narrow screen.
So I'm using the same one.
So now I don't have any warnings here.
So I would also get a Rich UI
installation available on mobile.
>> Male Speaker: Is the Desktop
Safari's New add to dock option,
essentially the same as installing.
>> Maximiliano Firttman: Yeah,
that's correct.
Add to dock in Safari is
the the installation part.
Unfortunately, they don't call it install.
It's add to dock, okay, but yeah, is one.
There is a webkit blog post
that shows how that works.
It's called WebApp on Mac.
They don't say PWAs, they say WebApps.
And they explain the add to dock,
Safari file, add to dock,
where you can go to file and
from here add to dock, okay?
And you can add it as a PWA.
Actually, we can try our own,
localhost 3000 PWA file,
add to dock, it's taking my name, it's
taking my icons, so it's reading my data.
It lets me change the name because
I can add more than one.
With the same idea on iOS that
you can maybe you want more.
Let's change the name.
Let's say Frontend pad,
wherever I change the name.
So now I have in my Mac Frontend pad, and
this is how Safari is rendering my PWA.
I'm not seeing the install, button by
the way, that's my media query in action.
Okay, that's my media query.
Yeah, you should do something with
the space and you need to work with that.
But yeah, now it's working, right?
Actually, I have two
versions of my app now.
I can see them here.
This is Frontend pad, and the other one I
think the other one is not installed yet.
But if I click here,
I have two screenshot now,
I have this one and
the other one is here, the font size.
I can try to match the 100%.
I think that both are 100%.
Yeah, it's not exactly the same now.
Now they're both are 100% font size.
So one is Chrome, the other one is Safari.
>> Maximiliano Firttman: Two apps.
This is Frontend app, this is, oops,
sorry, it was just do something like this.
This is CodePen Masters.
This is the Chrome one and
this is Frontend pad.
>> Maximiliano Firttman: So yeah, add to
dock is how you install PWAs on Safari.